Include documentation for the new WND feature (#2739)
owncloud/docs: modules/admin_manual/pages/enterprise/external_storage/windows-network-drive_configuration.adoc

file-sharing protocol. The files and directories on the SMB/CIFS server will be visible on your Files page
just like your other ownCloud files and folders.

Compared to standard SMB access, WND has advanced features like:

* User lockout prevention and password reset
* More authentication mechanisms against the backend
* Change notifications
* Enhanced ACL support

Here is a brief description of the advanced features:

> Depending of the Windows or Samba policy, the user could get locked out of his account if he enters a wrong password a number of times. The lockout prevention tries to avoid this from happening, by resetting the password if it is wrong. For the case of the ownCloud's standard SMB connector, the password won't be reset. It could happen, that the user gets locked out of the file server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Depending on the Windows or Samba policy, the user could get locked out of his account if he enters a wrong password a number of times. The lockout prevention tries to avoid this from happening, by resetting the password if it is wrong. For the case of ownCloud's standard SMB connector, the password won't be reset. It could happen, that the user gets locked out of the file server.
```

if your distribution does not provide it.
* `which` and `stdbuf`. These should be included in most Linux distributions.

To install and configure the necessary packages, see the
xref:installation/manual_installation/manual_installation.html#prepare-your-server[Prepare Your Server]
section of the manual installation documentation.

== Configuration

=== Enabling External Storage

> To enable external storage, go as as the ownCloud administrator to menu:Settings[Storage (in the admin section)]. Tick the checkbox to enable external storage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable external storage, as the ownCloud administrator go to menu:Settings[Storage (in the admin section)]. Tick the checkbox to enable external storage.
```

IMPORTANT: Both the Windows (or Samba) server and ownCloud's LDAP Integration app must connect to the same Active Directory server so that ownCloud can retrieve the same user and group information.

The use of this provider requires two key things:

- An Active Directory server which contains the standard user and group information that can be used by the {oc-marketplace-url}apps/user_ldap[LDAP Integration app].
- ownCloud's LDAP Integration app to be xref:configuration/user/user_auth_ldap.adoc[correctly configured] to retrieve user and group information from the same Active Directory / LDAP server as the one that the Windows or Samba server uses.

IMPORTANT: The ownCloud LDAP Integration app must configure the `sAMAccountName` to be the ownCloud server's username.

[TIP]
====
Some groups, such as `everyone` might not be handled properly.
This is because such groups don't exist in the LDAP server, or might not be found if the domain is
different, such as `nt authority\system` or `builtin\domain-users`.
====

The value to select for this provider is: `ocLdapPermissionManager`.

=== Windows Network Drive Notifications

> The SMB protocol supports registering for notifications of file changes on remote Windows SMB storage servers. Notifications are more efficient than polling for changes, as polling requires scanning the whole mounted SMB storage. While files changed through the ownCloud Web Interface or sync clients are automatically recognized by ownCloud, this recognitions are not possible when files are changed directly on remote SMB storage mounts. When using the _listener_, files changed on the SMB backend are recognized and a notification is stored in the database. The _process-queue_ job reads these stored notifications and initiates further actions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SMB protocol supports registering for notifications of file changes on remote Windows SMB storage servers. Notifications are more efficient than polling for changes, as polling requires scanning the whole mounted SMB storage. While files changed through the ownCloud Web Interface or sync clients are automatically recognized by ownCloud, this is not possible when files are changed directly on remote SMB storage mounts. When using the _listener_, files changed on the SMB backend are recognized and a notification is stored in the database. The _process-queue_ job reads these stored notifications and initiates further actions.
```

NOTE: The capability of the listener depends on the ability of the used SMB/CIFS storage backend to provide notifications. While Windows file servers have no limitations, some vendors may have restrictions. Please check these with your storage provider. It may be possible, that notifications for Samba only work for the target folder you're listening to, but not for any sub structures. If you're listening on the "/top" folder, you may not receive notifications for "/top/middle/bottom" folder. In this case, you have to setup listeners for every _existing_ folder and also for any _new_ folders that will be created. With Windows file servers, you will receive notifications for every file or subfolder inside the folder you're listening to.

==== WND Listener Setup

The WND listener for ownCloud 10 includes two different commands that need to be executed:

* xref:wnd-listen[wnd:listen] Listen to changes and save them in the database
* xref:wndprocess-queue[wnd:process-queue] Process saved listener changes from the database 

===== wnd:listen

> This command listens to changes for each  host and share configured and stores all notifications gathered in the database. _It is intended to run this command as a service_. The command requires the Windows/Samba account and the host/share the listener will listen to. The command does not produce any output by default, unless an error happens. Each stored notification will be further processed by the `wnd:process-queue` and will removed from the database after processing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command listens to changes for each host and share configured and stores all notifications gathered in the database. _It is intended to run this command as a service_. The command requires the Windows/Samba account and the host/share the listener will listen to. The command does not produce any output by default, unless an error happens. Each stored notification will be further processed by the `wnd:process-queue` and will be removed from the database after processing.
```

The `Null Permission Manager` is the default permission manager for ACLs and is used, if no other ACL
manager is specified. This is also the case, when no permission is explicitly set. If you want to retain
ownCloud's current behaviour, then use this permission manager. When in effect, the Windows Network Drive
app uses the file's attributes (e.g., read-only, and hidden), to determine how the user can interact with
the file. There are no usage restrictions.

The value to select for this provider is: `nullPermissionManager`.

===== The ownCloud LDAP Permission Manager

> The ownCloud LDAP Permission Manager evaluates ACLs in files along with file attributes to determine the permissions. In order to evaluate the ACLs, it needs access to the user and group membership information of the target Windows or Samba server. Therefore it uses the ownCloud's {oc-marketplace-url}apps/user_ldap[LDAP Integration app] for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ownCloud LDAP Permission Manager evaluates ACLs in files along with file attributes to determine the permissions. In order to evaluate the ACLs, it needs access to the user and group membership information of the target Windows or Samba server. Therefore it uses ownCloud's {oc-marketplace-url}apps/user_ldap[LDAP Integration app] for this.
```

=== wnd:listen

> This command listens to changes and stores all notifications gathered in the database for each  host and share configured. It is intended to be run as a service. The command requires the Windows/Samba account and the host/share the listener will to. The command does not produce any output by default, unless an error happens. Each stored notification will be processed by the `wnd:process-queue` which then will remove it from the database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This command listens to changes and stores all notifications gathered in the database for each  host and share configured. It is intended to be run as a service. The command requires the Windows/Samba account and the host/share the listener will listen to. The command does not produce any output by default, unless an error happens. Each stored notification will be processed by the `wnd:process-queue` which then will remove it from the database.
```

For additional options to provide the password, check xref:password-options[Password Options]

> Note that the password must be in plain text inside the file, and neither spaces nor newline characters will be removed from the file by default, unless the `--pasword-trim` option is added. The password file must be readable by the apache user (or www-data). Also make sure that the password file is outside of any directory handled by apache (web-readable) for security reasons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that the password must be in plain text inside the file, and neither spaces nor newline characters will be removed from the file by default, unless the `--password-trim` option is added. The password file must be readable by the apache user (or www-data). Also make sure that the password file is outside of any directory handled by apache (web-readable) for security reasons.
```

our case, and considering that file isn't being used by any other process, it will run only one
`wnd:process-queue` at a time. If someone tries to run the same command a second time while the previous
one is running, the second will fail and won't be executed.

The lock file `/opt/my-lock-file` itself will be created as an empty file by the `flock` command if it does not yet exist, but after it has been created the lock file doesn't change. Only an flock will be applied and removed. The file won't be removed after the script completes.

You can use flock also in cron, see the example below:

[source,console,subs="attributes+"]
----
* * * * *  flock -n /opt/my-lock-file -c 'sudo -u www-data /usr/bin/php /var/www/owncloud/occ wnd:process-queue <HOST> <SHARE>'
----

Check {flock-docs-url}[flock's documentation] for details and more options.

=== Activity Extension

From version 2.0.0 the Windows Network Drive app includes an extension of the Activity app. This extension will allow the app to send events to the Activity app so the users know what happened in the Windows Network Drive storage.

> Please see Figure 4 how a notification can look like. In this example, one user accessing the same host/share has changed a file. Other users will now get a activity notification about this change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 4 shows what a notification can look like. In this example, one user accessing the same host/share has changed a file. Other users will now get an activity notification about this change.
```

This extension requires the following components:

* `wnd:listen` command set up and running in order to get the storage events
* `wnd:process-queue` command running periodically (or manually) over the event queues generated by the `wnd:listen` command
* The Activity app enabled

For setting up the `wnd:listen` and `wnd:process-queue` commands, see their respective sections above.

This extension is disabled by default. This means that no activity will reach the users. In order to enable this extension, you can edit the `config/config.php` file and add the following configuration:

[source,php]
----
'wnd.activity.registerExtension' => true,
----

NOTE: This configuration will affect all the WND mount points

The events that will be shown to the users are based on what the `wnd:process-queue` detects and changes in the ownCloud's FS. Since the command includes some optimizations, some events might be inaccurate in some scenarios. For example, if multiple files are added in the same folder, there won't be multiple "file added" events but only one "folder modified" in the parent folder.

> The events are expected to reach only to the affected users. This filters out the users who cannot access the mount point, and also the users who do not have enough permissions in the Network Drive (Windows, Samba) to access that file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The events are expected to only reach the affected users. This filters out the users who cannot access the mount point, and also the users who do not have enough permissions in the Network Drive (Windows, Samba) to access that file.
```

=== Basic Setup for One ownCloud Server

. Go to the admin settings and set up the required WND mounts. Be aware though, that there are some
limitations. These are:
.. ownCloud needs access to the Windows account password for the mounts to update the file cache properly.
This means that "__login credentials, saved in session__" won't work with the listener.

> ownCloud suggest to use "__login credentials, saved in DB__" as best replacement instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ownCloud suggests to use "__login credentials, saved in DB__" as the best replacement instead.
```

respective sections

This extension is disabled by default. This means that no activity will
reach the users. In order to enable this extension, you can edit the
`config/config.php` file and add the following configuration:

[source,php]
----
'wnd.activity.registerExtension' => true,
----

NOTE: This configuration will affect all the WND mount points

The events that will be shown to the users are based on what the
wnd:process-queue detects and changes in the ownCloud's FS. Since the command
includes some optimizations, some events might be inaccurate in some scenarios.
For example, if multiple files are added in the same folder, there won't be
multiple "file added" events but only one "folder modified" in the parent
folder.

The events are expected to reach only to the affected users. This filters out
the users who cannot access the mount point, and also the users who haven't
enough permissions in the Network Drive (Samba, Windows...) to access that file.

As part of the Activity app configuration, each user can decide what events
he wants to receive, and if he wants to receive them in the activity stream
or via email.

> Users who can access to the Windows Network Drive storage via share won't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Users who can access the Windows Network Drive storage via share won't
```

Note that the file can be removed manually at any time if it's needed
(for example, the admin has reset some passwords, or has been notified
about password changing).

=== Activity extension

> From version 1.2.0 the Windows Network Drive app includes an extension of

Reviewer 2: please change to 2.0.0

Note that the file can be removed manually at any time if it's needed
(for example, the admin has reset some passwords, or has been notified
about password changing).

=== Activity extension

> From version 1.2.0 the Windows Network Drives app includes an extension of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From version 1.2.0 the Windows Network Drive app includes an extension of
```

the Activity app. This extension will allow the app to send events to the
Activity app so the users know what happened in the Windows Network Drive
storage.

This extension requires the following components:

* wnd:listen command set up and running in order to get the storage events

> * wnd:process-queue command running periodically (or manually) over the event queues generated by the wnd:listen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* wnd:process-queue command running periodically (or manually) over the event queues generated by the wnd:listen command
```

* the Activity app enabled

For setting up the wnd:listen and wnd:process-queue commands, see their
respective sections

This extension is disabled by default. This means that no activity will
reach the users. In order to enable this extension, you can edit the
`config/config.php` file and add the following configuration:

[source,php]
----
'wnd.activity.registerExtension' => true,
----

> NOTE: This configuration will affect to all the WND mount points

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: This configuration will affect all the WND mount points
```

The events that will be shown to the users are based on what the
wnd:process-queue detects and changes in the ownCloud's FS. Since the command

> include some optimizations, some events might be inaccurate in some scenarios.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
includes some optimizations, some events might be inaccurate in some scenarios.
```

For example, if multiple files are added in the same folder, there won't be
multiple "file added" events but only one "folder modified" in the parent
folder.

The events are expected to reach only to the affected users. This filters out

> the users who cannot access to the mount point, and also the users who haven't

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the users who cannot access the mount point, and also the users who haven't
```

> enough permissions in the Network Drive (Samba, Windows...) to access to that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
enough permissions in the Network Drive (Samba, Windows...) to access that
```

file.

As part of the Activity app configuration, each user can decide what events

> he want to receive, and if he wants to receive them in the activity stream

Reviewer: ```suggestion
he wants to receive, and if he wants to receive them in the activity stream
```
